In this lecture we are going to talk about the concrete implementation of decision trees.
So first of all we have to read the CXXVI file.
We are going to talk about classifying the iris data set.
So we are going to have one hundred and fifty samples.
So this is the data set.
Again we have four features set parler length Seppala with Potala length and pet hardware and the class
is going to be the target.
I'll do Seto's.
This is the first class the second class is Iris versicolor and we have iris virginica.
OK so these are the features and these are the output classes.
We just have to define the data features as the data and we have to define the columns in the dataset
because we have four features.
That's why we define the columns accordingly.
As you can see SEP-IRA length Seppala with a pattern of length and petrolhead is going to be the column
names in the dataset and the class is going to be the target variable.
That's why the data the target is equal to the data in that class.
OK so this is how we end up with the features and the output target variable.
We are going to split the data set into a training data set and test data set the test sizes 0.2.
As you can see our 0.2 which means that 80 percent of the original data set is for training purposes
and 20 percent of the original dataset is for testing.
OK.
So we have the training data set that test data said we just have to instantiate a decision tree classifier
as you can see it is imported from seeking to learn that tree and we have to define that the criterion
is E-Class to entropy because we would like deconstruct the decision tree based on entropy and information
again.
If we do not define this good theory and dandy Gini Index approach is going to be used.
We are going to talk about death algorithm but in this concrete implementation we are going to focus
on entropy and information gain.
If you take a look at the documentation as you can see there are lots of lots of parameters such as
this criterion.
As you can see entropy is for information gain and the default value is journey for Geany impurity.
OK we can define the splitter we can define the maximum depth.
Basically the maximum that has something to do with the size of the tree.
OK so in this case the depth of the tree is 1 2 3 and 4.
Basically the number of layers.
The deeper our decision tree the more branches and morally it has.
So basically with the help of the maximum that we are able to control the size of the tree.
OK we can define the minimum sample split we can define the minimum samples leaf and so on.
In our implementation it is just going to be fine.
We just set the criteria anti-B entropy and all the default settings are OK so we just have to fit this
model on the training data set.
So the feature train and target terrain and then we are able to make predictions we the map of decision
tree.
So that's why modal that fitted that predicate we would like to predicate the values for the test data
set.
So if we call this fit method what's happening in the background Second learn is going to take the data
set and it is going to construct a decision tree like this.
OK of course it is going to deal with the entropy Ajax as we have discussed in the previous lecture.
It is going to calculate the entropy for a given target variable.
Then it is going to use this formula is equal to the sum of p x times e x.
This is how scalar is going to calculate the entropy with respect to a given feature or predictor in
order to be able to calculate the information gain and the information again is the entropy minus the
eveil you.
This is what we have been discussing in a previous lecture.
OK so when do we call this fit method.
Seeking to learn is going to do everything for us.
It is going to calculate the entropy values it is going to calculate the information gain values and
according to these values it is going to construct the decision tree and if we have the decision tree
we are able to make new predictions on the past dataset.
So let's check the confusion matrix and the accuracy score.
So let's run the algorithm as you can see in this case.
The accuracy is 1.
What does it mean that the them is able to classify the given samples with a 100 percent accuracy.
Of course if we rerun the or read them the accuracy is not going to be 100 percent.
So it is 93 percent.
If you run again it's going to be approximately 97 percent.
OK so let's use cross-validation in order to end up with a more reliable result.
OK so let's say that and let's run it as you can see with the map of cross-validation the final result
is 95 percent accuracy.
OK.
Let's rerun again.
It's going to be 96 percent with the help of cross-validation so we can come to the conclusion that
using decision trees is definitely a good idea.
It is working quite fine.
The accuracy is approximately 96 percent.
But there's a huge problem as far as decision trees are concerned.
So the most significant problem when dealing with decision trees that every split it makes at each node
is optimized for the dataset It is 52.
So what does it mean that this splitting process will rarely generalize well to other data set.
And what does it mean.
This is the typical case of overfitting.
So decision trees has the tendency to overfit.
OK so that's why we have to reconsider.
Bit more complex architectures such as random forest classifiers or boosting.
OK so this is how we are able to use decision tree classifier on the Iraqis data sat and read the map
of the entropy and information.
Again seeking to learn is going to construct a tree like structures like this.
We have three output classes.
I always said Tozer either is versey color and Iowas virginica.
And as you can see the feature or predicter with the higher entropy is going to be the Roueche No.
OK as far as the iris dataset is concerned the path length is the feature with the highest entropy.
That's why it is the root node.
If the land is smaller than 2.40 file then it is the iron Seto's the output class.
If it is forwards then we have to make our own decisions.
So this is the decision preconstructed by Sacket learn.
It uses entropy and information gain as you can see.
Thanks for watching.